# Glox

Glox is an implementation of the lox compiler in Go, and is based on the clox compiler written in C (clox).  Lox is the creation of Robert Nystrom (craftinginterpreters.com).

## Major differences from clox
  - Go has a gc, hence all memory related stuffs are gone.
  - Go has no pointer arithmetic, hence need to use index.
  - Go does not have enum, hence use const and type.
  - Go does not have inline, so define anonymous function in function scope.
  - Go does not have explicit conditional compilation, so at compiler discretion.
  - Go does not have C-like macro, hence use function instead.
  - Go does not use header files, hence stuffs put in .h will be put in the corresponding .go file instead.
  - Go nil replaces C NULL.
  - Go use Uppercase for export symbols.
  - Although no need to implement the hash map mechanics in the Go implementation, still have to implement the hashmap access api.
  - String interning: we do not implement string interning in the Go implementation.
  - Some words are keywords in Go but not in C.  So have to be named differently:
    - type -> type_
    - string() -> str() // compiler.go
  - glox does not have common.h, so need to scatter the definitions defined in common.h elsewhere.

## Implementation

Although some mechanics required by C is not necessary in Go, we still choose to implement some of them as a programming exercise as well as to mirror the struct of clox as much as reasonable.

## Pratt Parser

In the C code, use forward declaration to handle a declaration cycle in the Pratt Parser.  In Go, use an init() to fix the invalid initialization cycle:

Package level variable "rules" depends on binary() in initialication, binary() depends on getRules(), which depends on "rules".

## Tagged Union

There are two ways to implement a tagged union in Go.  Either use a struct (higher performance?) or an interface (more space efficient).  I picked interface because the implementation is more interesting.

## Chunk OpCode

In order to add a type to the chunk opcode structure, will need to create a type interface and use type constraint in other functions such as writeByte() and writeBytes(), because the parameters that they take can be an opCode or a data byte (uint8).

## Macros

The READ_BYTE, READ_SHORT, READ_CONSTANT, READ_STRING  defined in vm.run() are implemented as inner functions defined in vm.run().

### BINARY_OP

It is not straightforward to convert the BINARY_OP macro in vm.c to Go becuase the macro takes a macro and an operator as parameters.  

Typically a C macro is converted to a Go function.  A C macro does not have type because it is just text substitution.  But a Go function is statically typed.  It is impossible to convert a C macro which takes an arbitrary function as a parameter.

Also there is no way to pass an operator as a function argument in Go.

BINARY_OP macro is implemented as an ordinary GO function binary_op()

## Import Cycle

There is an import cycle between value.go and object.go.  The cycle is broken by extracting code which depending on both object.go & value.go to a new file objval.go.

## Struct Inheritance

Like tagged union, we use interface to implement struct inheritance in clox.

## Value

A value is a struct with 2 fields representing its type and value.  The value can be a primitive data type, or an object.

Difference from clox: VAL_UNDEFINED ValueType is added in glox, so that the zero value of Value will not show up with type VAL_BOOL.

## Object

An object is a struct with 2 fields representing its type and its object value.  ObjString is an alias to string in glox.

## String Interning

Since glox use Go built-in map datatype to implement the table api, there is no need to implement string interning because the map datatype already take care of it.

## Constants Pool

If we add the same values twice in the constant pool, it will occupies two slots in the constant pool.  That is duplication exists.  Do we want to de-duplicate it?

## Local Variables

Lox, like many programming languages, stores local variables in the stack.

The locals array in the compiler struct has the exact same layout  as the VM's stack at runtime.  The variable's index in the locals array is the same as its stack slot.  How convenient.

## Future Improvement

  - Save the generated bytecodes to a file and later load and run the bytecodes directly without the need of parsing the Lox source code.  However, will need to persist the constants too because the bytecodes will not work without them.

## End
